
# What is this?

This is a collection of source files related to managing binary *.hlp
files used by Pure-C and Pure-Pascal on the Atari-ST platform. Both
compiler and decompiler are available. Source for the compilers have
been reconstructed from the executables in those packages, while the
decompiler is mostly based on
https://stcarchiv.de/st-computer/1992/04/help-screen-recompiler-fuer-pure-c.

The "master" branch contains versions with some fixes/improvements. You
can have a look on the "orig" branch for sources that can be compiled
to (almost) binary identical versions of the original tools.

Sources of the english help files are courtesy of E.L.F. Software.

# Available tools

- hc.ttp: reads a command file, and outputs *.hlp files for use by Pure-C

- helpcomp.ttp: reads a command file, and outputs *.hlp files for use by Pure-Pascal

- help_rc: reads binary *.hlp files, and transforms them to *.scr files suitable for
use by hc.

- pc_help.prg: standalone viewer for Pure-C help files.

- pp_help.prg: standalone viewer for Pure-Pascal help files.

All commandline tools can also be natively compiled on other platforms.

# Differences to original versions

- The help compiler hc has got a new option (-G=n in the command file)
to generate language specific strings in the index pages. Only a few strings
are affected by this. Only english and german are supported for now.

- The decompiler help_rc can now also output ST-Guide format.

- The decompiler help_rc can now also read old style *.hlp formats
used by Pure-Pascal.

- The decompiler help_rc will always write files with CR/LF endings.
This is needed because hc still relies on that.

- The decompiler help_rc no longer outputs the "Copyright" and "Index" screens by default,
since these are automatically generated by hc and would lead to duplicate screen names.
You can use the "-i" option to include them in the generated files.

- For Atari-ST, all tools are compiled/linked with the latest standard library.

- Several smaller bug fixes in the tools.

- A few typos fixed in the help files.

# Known restrictions

Screen names that are neither marked with "sensitive" or "capsensitive"
do (by design) not appear in the search tables of the help files. Since
in the index page they are truncated to 29 characters, their original
names can only be guessed by the text that appears in other references
to them. That may not always work reliable.

Compiling an input to binary format, and recompiling it to text input
does not always produce the same input again. This is because of the
behaviour mentioned above, and because sometimes the
capsensitive/sensitive keywords at the start of a screen are written in
a different order.

Input files for hc must have CR/LF endings, even on non-atari platforms.

Tabs in input files are always written as the number of spaces specified
by the -T= option, independent of the current column in the output. This
is wrong, so better avoid them.
